The Characters*

Kash & Crew

All kids, unless otherwise noted, are thirteen.

KASSIUS APOLLO ROGERS, III: Started going by Kash in the sixth grade, though his family is having a hard time adjusting and occasionally calls him Junior. His parents divorced when he was younger, but his father has since remarried, adding a stepsister named Christine. Not a big fan of school but gets decent grades. Interests include video games, movies and TV, swimming, basketball and riding bikes. The latter three have given him an athletic, runner’s build. Has an unwarranted confidence- failure never prevents him from trying things. Except roller skating; he’s certain he can’t do that. He’s loyal to his friend above all else. But the word that best describes him is oblivious. The kid’s too focused on all of the above to realize life’s not one dimensional. He also comes equipped with his own catch phrase.

DAWN SIMMS: Kash’s best and oldest friend. An only child, she and her single mother, Dana, are essentially an extension of Kash’s family. Mixed-raced, Dawn sees that she isn’t like most kids at school. She’s shorter, a little chubby. Her skin doesn’t quite match anyone else’s, her hair’s poofy. And, with little exception, she only hangs out with Kash, Pickens and Darrin. But the guys never treat her any different than they do anyone else. She doesn’t mind doing the things they do, though she’s not very good at it. She just wishes they’d go watch movies like Flashdance with her every now and again, instead of the same old action adventure films. She’s starting to struggle with the thought that she might be having feelings for one of the guys. 

RICKY PICKENS: The brains of the group. Tall and gangly, he goes along with his friends when they do things outside- but he’d rather be inside at the arcade or playing his Atari. He’s the voice of reason and typically brings an analytical point of view when the kids debate, say, the merits of bicyclists versus runners. Though not physically imposing he refuses to run from trouble. He is the younger of two children in his family.
DARRIN PETERS: A shorter, stocky African American kid. Because of their intellectual compatibility and shared interests, he’s most likely to be found with Pickens. But, because he’s also prone to the absurd, he’s the most likely to follow Kash in his ridiculous endeavors and behavior. While he’s the first of the boys to find the opposite sex appealing, the girls he’s interested in tend to be restricted to comic books and video games. Though not rich by any means, his family is the most affluent of the group. He is the middle child.

Caught in the Middle

SMOKEY: The closest we’ll get to a conflicted character in this story. She’s everything you’d imagine one of the most popular kids in school to be; she’s slender, blonde with sparkling blue eyes. But her exterior doesn’t reflect the warm, goofy person she feels like inside. Up until this particular summer, she had associated with the popular crowd- Vargas, Claire and all of them. After a couple of years in their ranks, however, she’s discovered their motives are self-serving and shallow. They do things because they feel it raises them above their peers. And Smokey’s never been about that. Life’s short and she just wants to enjoy it. And she hasn’t been. So, after making up a reason to avoid Vargas, she’s relieved by how openly she is welcomed into Kash’s crew. But, more so, they’ve reminded her how much she misses fun for the sake of fun. She has an older sister named Steph.

The Sibling Rival (Plus)

CHRISTINE HUGHES: Kash’s sixteen-year-old stepsister. She was eight when her mother and Pop married. The prettiest girl around, she has a level head and rarely gets caught up in the trappings of typical teen melodrama. She can usually be found on the phone with best friend Sherry or listening to early 60s American rock- an interest she got from Pop. While she embraces Pop as her father, she sees Kash as the annoying little brother she never knew she wanted.

BURDETTE: A nineteen-year-old soon-to-be sophomore at Ohio State. He goes by his last name and works two jobs- his usual attendant position at The Touchdown arcade, and his summer lifeguard gig at Tuttle Pool. Never did he think his near-encyclopedic knowledge of music would serve a purpose until he laid eyes on Christine. Does he have a first name? Sure. Probably. Maybe. But, if he does, no one knows what it is.

SHERRY: Christine’s somewhat-ditzy, talkative best friend. Also a lifeguard at Tuttle, she seems more interested in General Hospital and her tan than her post. 

Parental Units

KASSIUS APOLLO ROGERS, JR. (32): Kash’s dad and, for no particular reason, goes by Pop. Looks like Bob Seger. Pop went from high school straight to working the swing shift at a steel mill to support his young family. Divorced when Kash was a toddler, he married Vivian a couple of years later. He encourages his kids to take up various interests, such as basketball, fishing, and music. Never gets tired of his kids arguing or hearing how much he resembles Bob Seger.

VIVIAN ROGERS (38): Kash’s stepmom. She’s an intelligent, elegant looking woman that, if you saw her and Pop together, you would never guess they were married to each other. Though she can have fun, she’s the more serious of Kash’s parents. She’s as comfortable at cocktail parties as she is under the hood of a car. She works as a high school history teacher, which has shaped her to be stern but fair.

MARGO KITNER (32): Kash’s biological mother. She had, up until recently, been an administrative assistant at the Ohio State University. After years working there she began to feel burned out, so she quit that job and became a waitress at G.D. Ritzy’s. Because of the hours of her current job, she doesn’t get to spend as much time with Kash as she’d like. But, through their shared love of movies and television, their relationship is strong. Plus, with Ritzy’s being the local hangout, Kash can always pop in for a burger and a visit.

DANA SIMMS: Dawn’s mother. Though it’s not stated, she lost her husband when Dawn was very young. This has made her very protective of her daughter, and she doesn’t discriminate when it comes to her ire. As Dawn- and, by association, Kash- will soon find out.


Flippin’ Jerks!

REILLY RUGGLES: An oversized classmate of Kash and crew. He appears to have no clear motivation other than stuffing his face with food and tormenting those that are smaller than him. Which is pretty much everyone. But his favorite target seems to be Pickens.

VARGAS: One of those kids that has an air of entitlement. Though inexplicably- he’s not the best looking guy, has low values and morals, not particularly funny- he’s one of the most popular kids in school. Remember Steff from Pretty in Pink? Yeah… he’s that guy. But in middle school. Despite her objections, he actively pursues Smokey. Usually found with his social clones BRETT and ERIC.

CLAIRE and ALLY: Near the top of the social hierarchy? More like they are the top. They’re shallow and demeaning. Their primary concerns are popularity and partying. They were, at one point, Smokey’s best friends. But their attitude has slowly alienated her.

TIFFANY: Fancies herself a streetwise hustler. She can be found popping up at odd times attempting to sell her classmates illicit drugs, though they usually refuse. The reality is she presents a street savvy persona while actually being an unremarkable upper middle class suburban girl. And the things she sells aren’t real drugs.





*While the physical characteristics of certain roles have been defined, those of others have been intentionally omitted to provide imaginative flexibility for the reader. 







Tone and Style

Picture Cool Beans as visually simplified, yet incorporate the mindset of its characters. As children and young adults we view the world a bit more broadly. Remember it isn’t until we get older that we start to single out the nuances of life. Before then, we looked at things through the eyes of discovery, and saw them for face value. 
When Kash, Pickens, Dawn and Darrin are crossing an embankment dam, for example, we should recall those times we had a total disregard for safety. Because kids don't give a dam about safety (see what I did there?). We saw a tree and we wanted to climb it. We saw a street and we wanted to cross it. We didn’t realize the risks until they were pointed out to us. And sometimes, even then, we still did it.
As you read, keep in mind this is set in the 80s. The real 80s. Not what you’re shown today, where the decade is used as a caracturized prop. Yeah, it may seem silly to people that look through the scope of hindsight. But it’s really no different than any other decade. The people were real, the fashions bold and the attitude a culmination of all eras that preceded it.
The Arcade was the place to be, with its games and pinball machines lining the walls. The crowd of mostly teenaged boys, standing shoulder to shoulder, in the dimly lit room. A place where the synthetic roar of engines and weapon blasts joined 8-bit theme songs to energize the screen-lit faces of your friends as they played Tempest, Joust, Centipede, Qix, Zaxxon and more. This was XBox before Xbox, the precursor to virtual reality. You lived it. You breathed it.
Or the roller skating rink- the female version of the arcade- with colorful, strobing lights bouncing off the highly polished wooden floor, the areas off to the side awash in blacklight, causing kids passing through to glow. Skaters rolled around everywhere, some performing elaborate dance moves so smoothly you’d swear they were gliding on air. Giant speakers blared  your favorite songs off the walls while you chugged ice cold cola to chase the greasiest slice of pizza you’ll ever have.
And never forget that music. The Human League, Bananarama, Missing Persons. Journey, Donny Iris and Kim Carnes. And, of course, Michael Jackson. The virtual pulse of the 80s is locked on repeat on the mixtape of your mind every time you remember cruising the mall or your first crush. If you’re the type of person that likes to immerse yourself in an experience, I highly recommend you visit your favorite music streaming service and pull up an 80s playlist and have it on as you read. Especially songs from pre-1984.
If you need a reference for the 80s, just look it up on the internet. For those that are familiar- afterall, this was written for you just as much as anyone else-  you’ll remember it fondly. For those uninitiated- you’re in for a fun ride. Just like any other decade, the 80s had its problems. But it was also the party to end all parties.

With that said, I truly hope you enjoy.











